# Par’sid

Par’sid is a city, built slowly after the landing of the splitered comet, roughly 300 years ago.
The splintered comet created a rupture in the land, creating the great chasm, a large expanse (similar to the grand canyon). Along the trail that the comet town, the land was burned by the fire, turning it to shards of glass that are difficult to walk through. Par’sid is located in a crag region, with a high desert climate of low rainfall, but moderate weather for most of the year. 

After the landing of the splintered comet, the surrounding land was terraformed by the value ore, that is mined and distributed around the world. The original city was built around the mines, for the those that work and their family. After profits from the mines became so high, the city continued to expand, up to the field of glass that would be unsafe to live in. Instead, the city expanded to the top of the crag, greating an upper (new) and lower (old city). These places are treated effectively as one city though. To get from the lower to upper city and vice versa, that created a rope system using a crack to transport people (like an elevator, but much slower).

Today, only miners and their families are allowed to live in the lower city, which is more affluent and wealthy. The miners are paid very well, and can live quite lavish lives. Previously, there was some abuse by ultra-rich businessmen buying the mines, but this led to a lot of corruption between the different mining companies, and fierce competition caused poorer mining conditions. Instead, the union of miners and the government system pooled resources together to buy out the owners and to own all the mines. Some portion of the wealth generated by the mines is therefore fed into the upper city. Those in the upper city, on the other hand, mainly enable the work of the miners, transporting mined ore out of the city, converting the mined ore into potent material, further studying of the metal, etc.  

The thing of note, is concerns around those in the lower city of the ore running out. It has become widespread knowledge in the lower city, but only a select few in the upper city know, but all in the upper city have the feeling that something is wrong. For one, they have stopped most transport between the upper and lower cities without a justified reason. No tours of the mines are allowed anymore. The government have also been pumping more money into discovering new sources of wealth in the area, or more efficient use of the ore.

- City entrance (Upper)
    
    Entering the city will almost always occur through the Upper City, through many trails. 
    
    On doing so, tour guide welcomes visitors to the city and offers them a “free” tour of the city. Note LC has a strong tipping culture and it will be expected that anyone visited will know this. Prices will often be free, or much lower than expected, but if no tip is paid, NPC will treat them in a hostile way going forward. Perhaps on the welcome board, there can be a sign saying tips welcome to warn the party.
    
    The tour around around the city will show them all the fancy spots (listed below), it ends with the scenic view of the great chasm.
    
- City entrance (Lower)
    
    If travellers somehow go through the field of glass (the open desert at the base of the chasm, that was turned to glass by the comet landing) they will arrive at the Lower City. Travellers entering the city will be identified by patrolling watchmen, and sent to the upper city immediately.
    

- Key spots in the Upper City (and presented during the tour)
    - Pubs/Taverns
        - Nook’s nest
            
            Standard pub with a couple rooms on the first floor. Affordable prices but may be loud until early in the morning. A loving aasimar couple (Paala and Hanali) run the place, hiring their child and their friends (Rob, Eval and Poil) to attend the tables during the busy times. Has a bad reputation among the more affluent in the city. A good place to hear gossip and is frequented by many who work at the Union office.
            
        - Treasure
            
            Dormitory style lodgings available for short to long term stay. Common for those new to town, looking to find work. Choice of share dorm with bunk beds, or private room. Affordable but comes with no food. Currently run by Patsy, a human woman that says it’s owned by the union to encourage new workers in the city. Patsy initially came from another city in the country, with the hopes of a mining job. It’s been several years, and no job has arrived. Now she works a treasure. 
            
        - Opal’s
            
            Family business with a large sprawling mansion, offering rooms and a fancy meal. It will be quite empty other than a few citizens from the lower city, hosting people in the city. They offer a fancy meal, and luxurious rooms. Many of the rooms and cutlery are a shade of green, that seems a bit overbearing at first. There are four generations of Opal that work here (Green dragonborn family that lives in the adjoining house, the eldest born woman is given the name Opal, all others given green flavoured names (Olive, Sage, Chloe etc.) Roll d4 to determine which generation of Opal is working if they go here. 1 (youngest in early 20s) to 4 (in late 80s).
            
            Very expensive, even by parties’ standards. Good place for brokering meetings with important people, ill-advised to spend the night.
            
        - Glizzy heaven
            
            Disorganised shack with a grill serving hotdogs and mead. The seller refuses to offer his name, but says he was once a hungry visitor too, so does so to help others. The food is free, but strangely enough, the place is not very popular.
            
    - Government building / Union office
        
        <aside>
        💡
        
        A large brick building stands, with signs of weather through many years. It is placed in the centre of the city, giving the impression of importance. It is commonly referred to as the “green building”, due to the vines that drape down the bricks. 
        
        Across the way from the green building is a wooden shed, much smaller in size. Many people go in and out of the shack, or wait patiently outside on a bench. Outside the shed contains a noticeboard, with various requests for tasks with monetary values of them. 
        
        Examples of tasks:
        
        > Missing jabberworker, last seen across from the nook’s nest, 15gps.
        > 
        
        > Delivery service, 150 pounds of kava spice, full payment on return, 30gps.
        > 
        
        > Dangerous 5-day request, speak to Thurl in office for details, 300gps.
        > 
        </aside>
        
    - Watchers station (Police station)
        
        <aside>
        💡
        
        Set of houses that look fancy from outside, but then you notice all the windows contain reinforced metal bars. Tour guide would emphasise the level of safety is highest in this city compared to others in the country. They can even offer a tour of the jail.
        
        </aside>
        
        <aside>
        💡
        
        If they accept a tour of the jail, that can speak to Ernald Ispos, a current detainee soon to be released. They were caught stealing jobs off the union office board, to prevent others from seeing it. Was charged with 2 months at watchers. Has served 1.5 months and will be let out soon on good behaviour. Looking forward to going back home to husband.
        
        </aside>
        
    - Research college (College of Valor?)
        
        Large institute of research, particularly around different uses of the ore. Tour can introduce them Sylia Viva (😄), a high level Alchemist Artificer/Valor Bard. She has extensive research into various uses of the ore:
        My idea is the ore is type of magnetic mercury. In it’s pure form, it is a liquid. In it’s ore form, or in it’s allow form, it’s solid with a range of hardness. It can be used for:
        
        - Binding agent for potions (in small quantities of pure form)
        - Poisons (in large quantities of pure form)
        - Power source (alloy with iron, using magnetism)
        - Forging armour (used to soften armour to be welded into a shape, then removed to solidify the metal)
        - Metal design on weapontry (allows for the addition of glyphs/markings on metal)
        
        Secret uses?
        
        - Empowering arcane focuses?
        - Mixed with the right materials can be explosive
    - Old Forge
        
        <aside>
        💡
        
        The old forgery, large abandoned part of the upper city, that contains various anvils for the forging of weapons. The tour will explain that hundreds of years ago when the city was first built, it was envisioned that the lower city would mine the ore, and the upper city would forge great weapons. However, the metal is not best place over steel, bronze or even iron for weapon making, but rather it’s design. The forgery has since been abandoned as it is not profitable. It is a reminder of how resources can be spent and wasted when not planned and organised.
        
        </aside>
        
    - Great Chasm
        
        Scenic view of the divide created by the comet. It offers some view of the Lower city below, showing large luxurious houses, similar to Opal’s. A sketcher would be there, offering to paint a picture of the party.
        
    
    Note, there are no shops for buying materials, nor magic items. This is somewhat uncommon for a city of this size.
    
- Key spots in the Lower City
    
    Mine entrance
    
    Watch tower
    
    Union office
    
    Secret Forge